# Crowdfunding-Challenge
------------
## Project Description
Used Excel to modify and analyze crowdfunding data to identify trends.

### Goal
Demonstrate capabilities with Excel and Pivot tables. 

------------
## Credits
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only

------------
## Software Used
Excel
  Pivot Tables
  Conditional Formatting
  
------------
## Excel
-  Used conditional formatting to set the color of each cell in the outcome column based on the
   success designation of the campaign.
-  Created a new column 'Percent Funded' utilizing a formula to calculate the amount of money a
   campaign made relative to the initial funding goal.
-  Set the color of the cells in the 'Percent Funded' column with conditional formatting on a      three color scale from 0 (dark red), 100 (green), and 200 (blue).
-  Created a new column 'Average Donation' that utilizes a formula to calculate the average        donor contribution.
-  Split the Category and Sub-Category column into two columns named 'Parent Category' and         'Sub-Category'.

## Pivot Table
-  Created a pivot table that summarizes the number of campaigns that were successful, failed,     cancelled, or currently live by parent category.
  -  Created a stacked-pivot chart that can be filtered by the country based on the previous         pivot chart.
-  On a new sheet, made a pivot table that summarizes the number of campaigns that were            successful, failed, cancelled, or currently live by sub-category.
  -  Created a stacked-pivot chart that can be filtered by the country and parent category           based on the previous pivot chart.
-  Converted the 'launched at' and 'deadline' columns from Unix timestamp to a normal date         format.
  -  Created two new columns 'Date Created Conversion' and 'Date Ended Conversion' that contain
     the converted date data.
  -  Created a pivot table that displays the count of outcomes for each Date Created Conversion      value that can be filtered based on the parent category and Years.
  -  Created a pivot chart that visualizes the above pivot table data.

## Analysis
See the Word document for initial analysis.

### Excel Analysis
-  Created a new sheet with the following columns:
  -  'Goal'
    -  Split the Goal column into 12 sub-sections:
       -  Less than 1000, 1000-4999, 9 groups that increment up by 5,000 with each new
          section (ie 5000-9999)up to 49,999, and greater than or equal to 50,000.
  -  'Number Successful'
    -  Populated by using COUNTIFS() to count the number of successful projects were in each           goal range.
  -  'Number Failed'
    -  Populated by using COUNTIFS() to count the number of failed projects were in each               goal range.
  -  'Number Cancelled'
    -  Populated by using COUNTIFS() to count the number of cancelled projects were in each            goal range.
  -  'Total Projects'
    -  The total number of projects, calculated by summing the number successful, failed and           cancelled.
  -  'Percent Successful'
  -  'Percent Failed'
  -  'Percent Cancelled'
-  Made a line chart to assess if there is a correlation between the goal amount and the chance    of success, failure, and cancellation.

### Statistical Analysis
-  Created a summary statistics table that lists the number of campaign backers for successful     and unsuccessful campaigns.
-  Evaluated the mean, median, minimum, maximum, variance, and standard deviation in the number    of backers for successful and unsuccessful campaigns.

## Conclusion
This was my first main project utilizing pivot tables. I enjoyed the statistical analysis of the data to look for trends.
